index.md, before:

---
layout: lesson
root: .
permalink: index.html
---
This Library Carpentry lesson introduces people with library- and information-related roles to working with data using regular expressions. The lesson provides background on the regular expression language and how it can be used to match and extract text and to clean data.

> ## Teaching this lesson
>
> This lesson is taught either as a combination with the episodes [Jargon Busting](https://librarycarpentry.org/lc-overview/03-jargon-busting/index.html) and [A Computational Approach](https://librarycarpentry.org/lc-overview/04-computational-approach/index.html) in [Workshop Overview](https://librarycarpentry.org/lc-overview/) (with the possibility of adding optional episodes from Workshop Overview), as part of a self-organised mix-and-match training, or separately as an individual lesson.
{: .callout}

> ## Prerequisites
>
> This lesson has no prerequisites. You will need a laptop and an internet connection to complete Episode 2.
{: .prereq}

Commit message:

[automation] transform lesson to sandpaper

index.md, after:

---
permalink: index.html
site: sandpaper::sandpaper_site
---

> **ATTENTION** This is an experimental test of [The Carpentries Workbench](https://carpentries.github.io/workbench) lesson infrastructure.
> It was automatically converted from the source lesson via [the lesson transition script](https://github.com/carpentries/lesson-transition/).
> 
> If anything seems off, please contact Zhian Kamvar [zkamvar@carpentries.org](mailto:zkamvar@carpentries.org)

This Library Carpentry lesson introduces people with library- and information-related roles to working with data using regular expressions. The lesson provides background on the regular expression language and how it can be used to match and extract text and to clean data.

:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::  callout

## Teaching this lesson

This lesson is taught either as a combination with the episodes [Jargon Busting](https://librarycarpentry.org/lc-overview/03-jargon-busting/index.html) and [A Computational Approach](https://librarycarpentry.org/lc-overview/04-computational-approach/index.html) in [Workshop Overview](https://librarycarpentry.org/lc-overview/) (with the possibility of adding optional episodes from Workshop Overview), as part of a self-organised mix-and-match training, or separately as an individual lesson.


::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::  prereq

## Prerequisites

This lesson has no prerequisites. You will need a laptop and an internet connection to complete Episode 2.


::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
