README.md, before:

[![DOI](https://zenodo.org/badge/DOI/10.5281/zenodo.3264946.svg)](https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.3264946)  

# Maintainers for Library Carpentry: Introduction to Data
 
- [Shari Laster](https://github.com/sharilaster) (Lead)
- [Paul R. Pival](https://github.com/ppival)
- [Anton Angelo](https://github.com/antonangelo)
- [Carmi Cronje](https://github.com/ccronje)

# Past Maintainers

- [James Baker](https://github.com/drjwbaker)
- [Chris Erdmann](https://github.com/libcce)

Lesson Maintainers communication is via the [team site](https://github.com/orgs/LibraryCarpentry/teams/lc-data-intro-maintainers).

## Library Carpentry

[Library Carpentry](https://librarycarpentry.org) is a software and data skills training programme for people working in library- and information-related roles. It builds on the work of [Software Carpentry](http://software-carpentry.org/) and [Data Carpentry](http://www.datacarpentry.org/). Library Carpentry is an official Lesson Program of [The Carpentries](https://carpentries.org/).

## License

All Software, Data, and Library Carpentry instructional material is made available under the [Creative Commons Attribution
license](https://github.com/LibraryCarpentry/lc-data-intro/blob/gh-pages/LICENSE.md).

## Contributing

There are many ways to discuss and contribute to Library Carpentry lessons. Visit the lesson [discussion page](https://librarycarpentry.org/lc-data-intro/discuss/index.html) to learn more. Also see [Contributing](https://github.com/LibraryCarpentry/lc-data-intro/blob/gh-pages/CONTRIBUTING.md).

## Code of Conduct

All participants should agree to abide by The Carpentries [Code of Conduct](https://docs.carpentries.org/topic_folders/policies/code-of-conduct.html).

## Authors

Library Carpentry is authored and maintained through issues, commits, and pull requests from the community.

## Citation

Shari Laster (Ed.), Paul R. Pival (Ed.), Anton Angelo (Ed.), James Baker (Ed.), Carmi Crone (Ed.), Christopher Erdmann, Tim Dennis, Elizabeth Lisa McAulay, François Michonneau, … remerjohnson. (2019, July). LibraryCarpentry/lc-data-intro: Library Carpentry: Introduction to Data, June 2019 (Version v2019.06.1). Zenodo. http://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.3264946

[![DOI](https://zenodo.org/badge/DOI/10.5281/zenodo.3264946.svg)](https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.3264946)

## Checking and Previewing the Lesson

To check and preview a lesson locally, see [http://carpentries.github.io/lesson-example/07-checking/index.html](http://carpentries.github.io/lesson-example/07-checking/index.html).

Commit message:

Update title of lesson to Intro to Working w/ Data

README.md, after:

[![DOI](https://zenodo.org/badge/DOI/10.5281/zenodo.3264946.svg)](https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.3264946)  

# Maintainers for Library Carpentry: Introduction to Working with Data
 
- [Shari Laster](https://github.com/sharilaster) (Lead)
- [Paul R. Pival](https://github.com/ppival)
- [Anton Angelo](https://github.com/antonangelo)
- [Carmi Cronje](https://github.com/ccronje)

# Past Maintainers

- [James Baker](https://github.com/drjwbaker)
- [Chris Erdmann](https://github.com/libcce)

Lesson Maintainers communication is via the [team site](https://github.com/orgs/LibraryCarpentry/teams/lc-data-intro-maintainers).

## Library Carpentry

[Library Carpentry](https://librarycarpentry.org) is a software and data skills training programme for people working in library- and information-related roles. It builds on the work of [Software Carpentry](http://software-carpentry.org/) and [Data Carpentry](http://www.datacarpentry.org/). Library Carpentry is an official Lesson Program of [The Carpentries](https://carpentries.org/).

## License

All Software, Data, and Library Carpentry instructional material is made available under the [Creative Commons Attribution
license](https://github.com/LibraryCarpentry/lc-data-intro/blob/gh-pages/LICENSE.md).

## Contributing

There are many ways to discuss and contribute to Library Carpentry lessons. Visit the lesson [discussion page](https://librarycarpentry.org/lc-data-intro/discuss/index.html) to learn more. Also see [Contributing](https://github.com/LibraryCarpentry/lc-data-intro/blob/gh-pages/CONTRIBUTING.md).

## Code of Conduct

All participants should agree to abide by The Carpentries [Code of Conduct](https://docs.carpentries.org/topic_folders/policies/code-of-conduct.html).

## Authors

Library Carpentry is authored and maintained through issues, commits, and pull requests from the community.

## Citation

Shari Laster (Ed.), Paul R. Pival (Ed.), Anton Angelo (Ed.), James Baker (Ed.), Carmi Crone (Ed.), Christopher Erdmann, Tim Dennis, Elizabeth Lisa McAulay, François Michonneau, … remerjohnson. (2019, July). LibraryCarpentry/lc-data-intro: Library Carpentry: Introduction to Data, June 2019 (Version v2019.06.1). Zenodo. http://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.3264946

[![DOI](https://zenodo.org/badge/DOI/10.5281/zenodo.3264946.svg)](https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.3264946)

_Note: Lesson formerly known as Introduction to Data_

## Checking and Previewing the Lesson

To check and preview a lesson locally, see [http://carpentries.github.io/lesson-example/07-checking/index.html](http://carpentries.github.io/lesson-example/07-checking/index.html).
