episodes/06-quiz-answers.md, before:

---
title: Introduction to Data - Multiple Choice Quiz (answers)"
teaching: 0
exercises: 0
questions:
- What does `Fr[ea]nc[eh]` match?
objectives:
- Test knowledge of use of regular expressions in searches
keypoints:
- Regular expressions answer sheet
---

## Exercise Answers

What does `Fr[ea]nc[eh]` match?

- this matches `France`, `French`, `Frence`, and `Franch`. It would find words where there were characters either side of these so `Francer`, `foobarFrench`, or `Franch911`.

What does `Fr[ea]nc[eh]$` match?

- this matches `France`, `French`, `Frence`, and `Franch` at the end of a line. It would find words where there were characters before these so `foobarFrench`.

What would match the strings `French` and `France` only that appear at the beginning of a line?

- `^France|^French` This would also find words where there were characters after `French` such as `Frenchness`.

How do you match the whole words `colour` and `color` (case insensitive)?

- In real life, you *should* only come across the case insensitive variations `colour`, `color`, `Colour`, `Color`, `COLOUR`, and `COLOR` (rather than, say, `coLour`. So one option would be `\b[Cc]olou?r\b|\bCOLOU?R\b`. This can, however, get quickly quite complex. An option we've not discussed is to take advantage of the `/` delimiters and add an ignore case flag: so `/colou?r/i` will match all case insensitive variants of `colour` and `color`.

How would you find the whole-word `headrest` or `head rest` but not `head  rest` (that is, with two spaces between `head` and `rest`?

- `\bhead ?rest\b`. Note that although `\bhead\s?rest\b` does work, it would also match zero or one tabs or newline characters between `head` and `rest`. In most real world cases it should, however, be fine.

How would you find a 4-letter word that ends a string and is preceded by at least one zero?

- `0+[a-z]{4}\b`

How do you match any 4-digit string anywhere?

- `\d{4}`. Note this will match 4 digit strings only but will find them within longer strings of numbers.

How would you match the date format `dd-MM-yyyy`?

- `\b\d{2}-\d{2}-\d{4}\b` In most real world situations, you are likely to want word bounding here (but it may depend on your data).

How would you match the date format `dd-MM-yyyy` or `dd-MM-yy` at the end of a line only?

- `\d{2}-\d{2}-\d{2,4}$`

How would you match publication formats such as `British Library : London, 2015` and `Manchester University Press: Manchester, 1999`?

- `.* : .*, \d{4}` You will find that this matches any text you put before `British` or `Manchester`. In this case, this regular expression does a good job on the first look up and may be need to be refined on a second depending on your real world application.

## Multiple Choice Quiz Answers

- Q1. C
- Q2. A
- Q3. B
- Q4. B
- Q5. C
- Q6. B
- Q7. C
- Q8. A
- Q9. C
- Q10. A
- Q11. B
- Q12. A

Commit message:

Replace instances of "foobar" with actual words
Closes /issues/113.

episodes/06-quiz-answers.md, after:

---
title: Introduction to Data - Multiple Choice Quiz (answers)"
teaching: 0
exercises: 0
questions:
- What does `Fr[ea]nc[eh]` match?
objectives:
- Test knowledge of use of regular expressions in searches
keypoints:
- Regular expressions answer sheet
---

## Exercise Answers

What does `Fr[ea]nc[eh]` match?

- this matches `France`, `French`, in addition to the misspellings `Frence`, and `Franch`. It would also find strings where there were characters to either side of the pattern such as `France's`, `in French`, or `French-fried`.

What does `Fr[ea]nc[eh]$` match?

- this matches `France`, `French`, `Frence`, and `Franch` _only_ at the end of a line. It would also match strings with other characters appearing _before_ the pattern, such as `in French` or `Sino-French`.

What would match the strings `French` and `France` only that appear at the beginning of a line?

- `^France|^French` This would also find strings with other characters coming after `French`, such as `Frenchness` or `France's economy`.

How do you match the whole words `colour` and `color` (case insensitive)?

- In real life, you *should* only come across the case insensitive variations `colour`, `color`, `Colour`, `Color`, `COLOUR`, and `COLOR` (rather than, say, `coLour`. So one option would be `\b[Cc]olou?r\b|\bCOLOU?R\b`. This can, however, get quickly quite complex. An option we've not discussed is to take advantage of the `/` delimiters and add an ignore case flag: so `/colou?r/i` will match all case insensitive variants of `colour` and `color`.

How would you find the whole-word `headrest` or `head rest` but not `head  rest` (that is, with two spaces between `head` and `rest`?

- `\bhead ?rest\b`. Note that although `\bhead\s?rest\b` does work, it would also match zero or one tabs or newline characters between `head` and `rest`. In most real world cases it should, however, be fine.

How would you find a 4-letter word that ends a string and is preceded by at least one zero?

- `0+[a-z]{4}\b`

How do you match any 4-digit string anywhere?

- `\d{4}`. Note this will match 4 digit strings only but will find them within longer strings of numbers.

How would you match the date format `dd-MM-yyyy`?

- `\b\d{2}-\d{2}-\d{4}\b` In most real world situations, you are likely to want word bounding here (but it may depend on your data).

How would you match the date format `dd-MM-yyyy` or `dd-MM-yy` at the end of a line only?

- `\d{2}-\d{2}-\d{2,4}$`

How would you match publication formats such as `British Library : London, 2015` and `Manchester University Press: Manchester, 1999`?

- `.* : .*, \d{4}` You will find that this matches any text you put before `British` or `Manchester`. In this case, this regular expression does a good job on the first look up and may be need to be refined on a second depending on your real world application.

## Multiple Choice Quiz Answers

- Q1. C
- Q2. A
- Q3. B
- Q4. B
- Q5. C
- Q6. B
- Q7. C
- Q8. A
- Q9. C
- Q10. A
- Q11. B
- Q12. A
